
# DS004 - Prospective Dataset SINERGIA

## Recruitment

Targeted Cohort:
- 40 healthy controls 
- 40 patients with epilepsy

The approximate rythm for acquisition will be around ~2 patients par month. 

#### Recruitement of controls
via  personal networks and flyers posted XXX.

#### Recruitement of patients
The patients are recruited by SV during their clinical evaluation. Proposition of participation in the research protocol.

## Preparation and Acquisition

#### For controls 

1. Send of the email with the explanation, contra-indications MRI and convocation
2. Welcome the participant in Campus Biotech 
3. Consent Form
4. EEG or MRI protocol first depending on the availabilities
5. Compensation of 60CHF given in cash after signature of the receipt.


#### For patients

1. Phone contact after redirection of the patient by SV to the research team
2. Welcome the participant in Campus Biotech 
3. Consent Form
4. EEG or MRI protocol first depending on the availabilities
5. Compensation based on their travel receipts and cost of lunch covered (if full day acquisition).

##### Note
Cash: by advance on the SINERGIA gran
All the templates of the mentioned documents are available on the SINERGIA switchdriv
Ethics are available on XX
All the signed original documents are stored XXX



## Protocol

### For EEG
 
The document ‘Procedure d’enregistrement’ summarizes all the different steps for the recordin
Recordings are performed always with minimum 2 people among the persons formed (LDW, IR, EM).

Three recordings are performed in this order:
- Resting-state (~ 10 min)
- Auditory Task (~ 7 min)
- Visual Task (~ 3 x 8 min  ~ 25 min)

### For MRI

Recordings are performed always with minimum 2 persons: one of the MRI operators of the CIBM platform and SA or in replacement, LDW, IR, EM

The sequences performed in this order:
- MP2RAGE acquisition
- resting-state BOLD fMRI (with physiological recordings)
- Diffusion MRI
- multi-TE sequence




## Data Exports and Storage of raw data

### EEG

During recording, data are locally stored on the EGI recording computer (without internet access) and transferred locally on a USB stick to the data transfer computer in the CIBM facility on the UNIGE drive.
Storage of raw data?



### MRI
Data are pushed to the DICOMS hub by the MRI operator. They are retrieved from the PACS computer in PEP3 Lausanne by YA with SA or EM and the DICOMS are directly uploaded in the RAW_DATA folder on Urblauna. 


### Physiological signals
(?)



## Anonymization and Demographic Information
Each subject has a code attributed
The first participant control gets the code following this model sub-ctrl01.
The first patient gets the code sub-01.
The following participants are coded similarly using this model.

The key code is saved on XXX by XXX
The demographic information (age, handness, gender) are stored XXX

For EEG data, no other particular anonymization is required.
For MRI data, anonymazation (for example date of birth in the DICOM header) is performed during the BIDS conversion.  And PyFace???


## BIDS conversion

### For EEG
EEG data are directly anonymized at the recording step during the acquisition.
The EEG data are transfered manually from the local EGI computer (with no internet access) to a USB stick.
From a computer dedicated to data transfer in Campus Biotech, the data are uploaded in a cloud space provided by Campus Biotech/UNIGE (?).
The data are converted locally into BIDS format by LDW via a matlab code 'data2bids.m'.
BIDS data are uploaded on Curnagl by (LDW?) in the DS004
For now, the EEG data are not uploaded on Flywheel. 

Conversion by LDW
Matlab cod
Matlab coded is stored XX
Raw data are stored XX
BIDS data are then uploaded on Curnagl ? and Flywheel ?


### For MRI


Data are then anonymized (Defacing also (?)) by EM(?) and converted into BIDS using heudiconv. 
The anonymized BIDS data are uploaded on Curnagl in DS004 directory (path: '/work/PRTNR/CHUV/RADMED/phagmann/sinergia2norm').
In parallel, the DICOMS are uploaded to Flywheel and converted using Flywheel Gears (BIDS pre-curation and BIDS curation). 

Conversion by EM
Conversion in BIDS is done using heudiconv tool and the python file SINERGIA7T_heuristic.py (anonymization performed with the same tool)
Raw data are store on Urblauna
/archive/PRTNR/CHUV/RADMED/phagmann/sinergia2sens
BIDS data are stored on Curnagl XXX
In parallel, data are stored on flywheel.
The DICOMS are directly uploaded via fw CLI and the gear rules automatically convert them into BIDS. 


## Storage of data

### Raw data


### BIDS data


### Data preprocessing and derivatives

#### Basic Preprocessing

#### Exploratory Analyses


## Storage of code


